at the end of the day a lot of people
come and do the work with me because
they want to figure out how to be happy
the dilemma with that is that usually
what happens is they get some list of
things they need to do to be happy then
they don't do those things then they
beat themselves up for not doing them
and then they're even more unhappy than
they were before they tried to do all
these things to be happy so instead of
all that nonsense what I'm going to do
is I'm going to tell you exactly how not
to be happy and then you can feel the
pain of those things and then maybe just
maybe you'll choose
to do something different okay so the
five ways to stay unhappy are convince
yourself that you're a victim repress
all your emotions don't be grateful
isolate yourself and think you're better
than everyone let's go into each one
point by Point convincing yourself
you're a victim convincing yourself
you're a victim is basically saying if I
am who I want to be and I do what I want
to do then I am going to be oppressed I
can't do it I'm not allowed there's
going to be some negative consequence
which basically is convincing yourself
that if you are who you want to be in
the world that the world will punish you
and reject you what that basically means
is that your mom and dad punished you
and rejected you as you were a kid and
you still believe that the world reacts
that way it also means that you're never
going to find a world where you being
yourself gets rewarded right so if I can
be an Isis member and I can find a
community that rewards me for that and I
can be an artist and I can find a
community that rewards me for that
surely you must be able to be yourself
and have a community that rewards you
for that but you'll never find it if you
feel like you're a victim if you feel
like you're a victim what you're
basically telling yourself is that I
don't have the power to be myself
there's somebody else in control and
that just devastates you devastates your
self-esteem and it takes away your
happiness number two is repressing your
emotions
here's a simple way to experience how
repressing your emotions is going to
make you feel crappy repress all of your
emotions right
now even more repress make sure not even
a little bit of an emotion good
oh does that feel good no it doesn't I
have this great saying it's Joy is the
matriarch of a family of emotions and
she only comes into a house where her
children are
welcome if we repress who we are we
can't be happy because we're not being
ourselves also repressing your emotion
creates muscle tension you have to
constrict an emotion with your muscles
like try to have no emotion or or stop a
particular emotion without tightening
down your muscles at all it's impossible
and so you're walking around with this
extra tension this extra weight and that
can't make you happy number three is
being ungrateful so the thing about
gratitude is when when you feel grateful
for something you're acknowledging that
there's a greater force in the world
than you that it's not all dependent on
you right so what we don't typically say
is I'm so grateful that I'm awesome it's
like oh I'm grateful for the food I'm
grateful for the people who brought me
the food I'm grateful for this
opportunity all things that are somewhat
outside of your control and inside of
that you see the
care of the world and it doesn't make
you all alone having to do everything it
doesn't isolate you so that's one of the
reasons that if you really push away
gratitude and you say I got to do it all
myself it's going to start constricting
you and making you more more unhappy the
other way that being ungrateful makes
you unhappy is it takes away half of the
solutions that are available to you so
there's two ways to come up with a
solution the first one
is this is what's wrong how do I fix it
and the second is this is what's right
how do I grow it if you're not grateful
you don't get to see what's right and
then you can't grow it so all you've got
are problem s problems problems problems
you have to fix and fix and fix and then
you start creating problems because all
you know how to do is to fix them and so
you see everything as a problem nothing
that's good in your world comes out
because you're not grateful for anything
so how could it be good if you're not
grateful for it so isolating yourself is
a great way to stay unhappy and there's
so many ways that you can do it you can
isolate yourself by not being around
people you can isolate Yourself by
thinking you're alone when you're around
always keeping all your relationship
ships at a surface level so you don't
actually have any depth in the
relationship you can isolate Yourself by
thinking that nobody understands you
that thinking you're an outsider and the
question is like why does isolating
yourself keep you unhappy it's because
it's a human need to thrive there's a
human need to survive that we all know
it's like water and air and food and
shelter but there's a whole bunch of
other needs that we have that are
required if we're going to thrive right
if we don't feel safe we're not going to
thrive if we don't feel Community a
sense of connection we're not going to
thrive and so the answer is what makes
it that if I isolate myself I am going
to be unhappy the same thing that makes
it so that if you don't eat food you're
going to be unhappy or you don't drink
water you're going to be unhappy last
way to keep yourself unhappy is to think
that you're better than other people and
there's a couple things that this kind
of glues together the first one is that
it keeps you isolated which is what we
just talked about it's a way to keep you
separate and alone in the world so
that's one the other thing to feel like
you're better than other people you have
to judge them and if you judge them
every single time we have that judgment
we're cutting off another feeling so you
can easily check in any time and say oh
I'm judging somebody what is it that I
would have to feel if I couldn't judge
them and you have an emotional
experience so it's also an emotional
repression so the last reason that
thinking that you're better than other
people keeps you unhappy is it requires
you to constantly be defensive you have
to constantly have a defense up to prove
that you're better than other people and
so it it closes your heart so literally
you can just do the experiment right now
think you're better than somebody or
pick that person that you think you're
better than you know the person right
and then open your heart and see if you
can do both at the same
time okay so those are the five tricks
to staying unhappy I hope you can really
feel how unhappy they make you go out
and try being unhappy this way see how
it works for you I guarantee you it'll
work and if you want an experiment to
take home here's an easy one take 4
hours one day and try not to feel any
emotion every emotion you feel repress
it and here's a trick there is no moment
that you are awake when you're not
having an emotion there's always an
emotion happening at any moment you have
a sensation going through your body that
is called an emotion whatever that is
for four 4 hours try to stop it see how
you feel at the end of those 4 hours all
right so I hope this helps you if you
really want to stay unhappy this should
be a a great video for you and uh if you
like this kind of content feel free to
subscribe and like below and if you have
anything you want us to cover leave us a
comment